The northern airports lack any degree of services in
     comparison to those farther south. Fuel is usually available
     if you can locate the operator. Some of the larger
     communities may have a pay telephone at the airstrip, but
     the normal procedure is to buzz the town on arrival. This
     lets the people know you are landing and usually someone
     will head out to the strip to meet you.
          Unless you are a regular customer, all transactions for
     fuel and oil are on a cash basis. Cheques are nearly useless
     in a village without a bank. Credit to a stranger is
     foolhardy.
          During the grip of winter, the snowmobile is the major
     mode of transport in all but the largest of settlements. In
     many places that do have roads in winter, vehicles are left
     running 24 hours a day. If allowed to get cold, it may take
     many hours of effort to restart balky engines.
          Most northern residents enjoy the winter months. The
     change  in seasons brings on a change in activities. The
     boats and motors are stored away with the lawnmowers and
     garden chairs. The snowmobiles are tuned up, ice-fishing
     shacks are towed onto lakes and rivers. The blades of gas-
     powered ice augers are sharpened. The fishermen flock to
     their favorite spots and drill holes through ice up to four
     feet thick.
          Whether in the comfort of a shack with a woodburning
     stove glowing in the center, or huddled on the ice in the
     lee of a snowmobile, they normally take a good catch.
     Walleye, trout, pike, tullibee and whitefish as well as
     perch, burbot, catfish and bass are plentiful. The most
     popular bait is minnows, some use sucker-belly, or net bags
     of trout eggs. Others use metal spoons or large bucktail
     flies, lead-headed jigging lures, or just snelled hooks. As
     in summer, the best bait is whatever the fish are taking at
     the time.
          Moose hunting is another favorite sport, especially in
     the colder weather when the moose are on the move for food
     and warmth. The hunter faces problems similar to the pilot
     with his equipment. The extreme temperatures require that
     his snowmachine be kept in top condition if it is to start
     after a day of hunting. Once started it must be dependable.
     A life and death situation could develop if the machine
     breaks down while 40 or 50 miles from home.
          Even his rifle requires special care. A bolt covered
     with heavy grease will freeze solid in the cold. The firing
     pin may not move when struck by the hammer. Many a moose and
     bear lived to face another day because a hunter's weapon
     failed to operate.
          Other outdoor activities include cross country skiing,
     snowmobiling, and racing dog teams. These sports are
     included in the many winter festivals held each year.
          As spring arrives, the winter equipment is stored away
     and once again the boats and motors are brought out. Wagers
     are made on the time and date of the break up of river ice.
     The snow blowers, shovels, and skidoo suits are replaced
     with lawn mowers, rakes, and bathing suits.
          The pussy willows blossom. The ducks and geese return
     from their winter feeding grounds in the southern U.S.A..
     The frogs begin to croak and the first battalions of
     mosquitoes are hatched.
          From the winter lows of 40 below zero, the mercury
     climbs upward. The summer highs reach the 90's, sometimes
     100 degrees. A fantastic differential of 140 degrees between
     seasons.
          Through the seasons, day to day life continues. The
     sport and commercial fishing, the trapping and hunting. The
     road building, home construction, and landscaping. The
     pilots fly passengers and freight. They fly patrols on
     hundreds of miles of hydro-electric transmission lines and
     forest fire patrols. At regular intervals they carry
     conservationists doing animal census. They transport tanks
     of baby fish to restock the lakes. The seriously ill or
     injured are taken to medical centers by MEDEVAC flights.
          Other flights carry fishermen, and tourists.
     Prospectors vie with geologists, botanists, biologists,
     entomologists, and surveyors. All use the aircraft to see,
     touch, smell, measure and record the wonders of the north.
          The opening day of each hunting or fishing season is
     heralded by the arrival of recreational vehicles of all
     types. Trailers and vans, motorhomes and 4X4's arrive daily.
     They carry or tow boats and motors, bicycles, motorcycles,
     and ATVs. The "first-timers" fill the private and provincial
     government campgrounds. The more experienced and
     adventuresome travel logging roads and bush trails to
             favorite lakes, rivers, and streams.
          In town, the streets and parking lots are crammed with
     vehicles and equipment.
          Gasoline, food, booze, and fishing equipment are sold
     in great quantities.
          The hotels are full. Reservations were made months in
     advance, some were made prior to leaving the year before.
          For a few short weeks, during the prime spring fishing
     period, every available camping spot is occupied.
          As the summer wears on, the sportsmen recede and
     tourists take their place. The cycle repeats annually.
          Each year a number of travellers arrive in privately
     owned aircraft. Piper Cub to Beechcraft. Taildragger to
     bizjet. Most have been here before, to some it is a new
     experience.
          To a southern pilot, a trip north can be unnerving.
     Accustomed to flying over a network of roads and railroad
     tracks, always in contact with an airport or navigation aid,
     they are seldom prepared for the realities of northern
     flight.
          Airports are hundreds of miles apart. In most cases
     there are no roads or railways for navigation. At lower
     altitudes, voice contact with an airport is an exception
     rather than the rule.
          Flight plans of course are mandatory. Map reading is
     difficult. There are so many lakes, many of them the same
     basic shape that a sharp eye must be kept on the map.
          For seaplanes, the ever present danger of logs, rocks,
     and reefs is amplified by the distance from civilization.
     Flights must be carefully planned around suitable refueling
     facilities.
          The pilot of a private seaplane is in his own element
     here. The pleasure of landing on a remote lake, its quiet
     green waters undisturbed by others, is indescribable.
              After securing the aircraft and setting up camp, the
     true beauty of the north can be enjoyed.
          Waters teeming with fish, are surrounded by wildlife of
     all types. The smells of wood smoke and coffee mingling with
     the sound of fresh fish sizzling in the frypan.
           The songs of bird life. The cry of the loon. The
     evening wail of coyotes and wolves. The whistle of wings as
     ducks, geese, ravens, hawks, and eagles travel down the
     shoreline. On the lakes are the wakes of passing beaver and
     muskrat. The occasional warning smack of a beaver's tail on
     the water as he senses danger.
          The varied hues of trees, evergreen and deciduous. The
     colors of windflowers. The taste of fresh wild strawberries,
     raspberries, and blueberries.
          The excitement of an evening sky dancing with a
     dazzling display as the Aurora Borealis appears. The
     "Northern Lights" are surrounded by stars, incredibly
     brilliant against the black, smog free heavens.
          Thoughts in the night.... Lying in your tent you hear
     rustling noises. A twig snaps. Mouse or rabbit? Moose or
     bear? Is the food secure? You visualize the food bundle,
     securely tied to a tree branch, high above the ground.
          The wind is rising, you can hear small waves breaking
     on the shore. Is the airplane alright? Should you go and
     check it?
          What will the fishing be like in the morning? Will you
     get another chance to land the big Walleye that you lost to
     day. Or a bigger one?
          A lone mosquito buzzes your ear. Somehow he has
     penetrated the netting of your tent.
          The cry of a loon is the last thing you hear. You sleep
     peacefully until the songs of early morning bird life
     announce the start of a new day.
          But for the constant buzz-sting-slap of insect warfare,
     you might be in heaven.Zfa pinzfanp cynbinzg dcok cpq hamnaa it ganlyoag yp
     oiwbcnygip zi zfiga tcnzfan giszf. Tsad yg sgscddq clcydcvda
     yt qis ocp diocza zfa ibanczin. Giwa it zfa dcnman
     oiwwspyzyag wcq fcla c bcq zadabfipa cz zfa cyngznyb, vsz
     zfa pinwcd bnioahsna yg zi vsjj zfa ziep ip cnnylcd. Zfyg
     dazg zfa baibda kpie qis cna dcphypm cph sgscddq giwaipa
     eydd fach isz zi zfa gznyb zi waaz qis.
          Spdagg qis cna c namsdcn osgziwan, cdd zncpgcozyipg tin
     tsad cph iyd cna ip c ocgf vcgyg. Ofausag cna pacndq sgadagg
     yp c lyddcma eyzfisz c vcpk. Onahyz zi c gzncpman yg
     tiidfcnhq.
          Hsnypm zfa mnyb it eypzan, zfa gpiewivyda yg zfa wcrin
     wiha it zncpgbinz yp cdd vsz zfa dcnmagz it gazzdawapzg. Yp
     wcpq bdcoag zfcz hi fcla nichg yp eypzan, lafyodag cna datz
     nsppypm 24 fisng c hcq. Yt cddieah zi maz oidh, yz wcq zcka
     wcpq fisng it attinz zi nagzcnz vcdkq apmypag.
          Wigz pinzfanp nagyhapzg apriq zfa eypzan wipzfg. Zfa
     ofcpma  yp gacgipg vnypmg ip c ofcpma yp cozylyzyag. Zfa
     viczg cph wizing cna gzinah cecq eyzf zfa dcepwieang cph
     mcnhap ofcyng. Zfa gpiewivydag cna zspah sb, yoa-tygfypm
     gfcokg cna zieah ipzi dckag cph nylang. Zfa vdchag it mcg-
     bieanah yoa csmang cna gfcnbapah. Zfa tygfanwap tdiok zi
     zfayn tclinyza gbizg cph hnydd fidag zfnismf yoa sb zi tisn
     taaz zfyok.
          Efazfan yp zfa oiwtinz it c gfcok eyzf c eiihvsnpypm
     gzila mdieypm yp zfa oapzan, in fshhdah ip zfa yoa yp zfa
     daa it c gpiewivyda, zfaq pinwcddq zcka c miih oczof.
     Ecddaqa, znisz, byka, zsddyvaa cph efyzatygf cg eadd cg
     banof, vsnviz, ocztygf cph vcgg cna bdapzytsd. Zfa wigz
     bibsdcn vcyz yg wyppieg, giwa sga gsokan-vaddq, in paz vcmg
     it znisz ammg. Izfang sga wazcd gbiipg in dcnma vsokzcyd
     tdyag, dach-fachah rymmypm dsnag, in rsgz gpaddah fiikg. Cg
     yp gswwan, zfa vagz vcyz yg efczalan zfa tygf cna zckypm cz
     zfa zywa.
          Wiiga fspzypm yg cpizfan tclinyza gbinz, agbaoycddq yp
     zfa oidhan eaczfan efap zfa wiiga cna ip zfa wila tin tiih
     cph ecnwzf. Zfa fspzan tcoag bnivdawg gywydcn zi zfa bydiz
     eyzf fyg ausybwapz. Zfa axznawa zawbanczsnag nausyna zfcz
     fyg gpiewcofypa va kabz yp zib oiphyzyip yt yz yg zi gzcnz
     ctzan c hcq it fspzypm. Ipoa gzcnzah yz wsgz va habaphcvda.
     C dyta cph haczf gyzsczyip oisdh haladib yt zfa wcofypa
     vnackg hiep efyda 40 in 50 wydag tniw fiwa.
          Alap fyg nytda nausynag gbaoycd ocna. C vidz oilanah
     eyzf faclq mnacga eydd tnaaja gidyh yp zfa oidh. Zfa tynypm
     byp wcq piz wila efap gznsok vq zfa fcwwan. Wcpq c wiiga cph
     vacn dylah zi tcoa cpizfan hcq vaocsga c fspzan'g eacbip
     tcydah zi ibancza.
          Izfan iszhiin cozylyzyag ypodsha onigg oispznq gkyypm,
     gpiewivydypm, cph ncoypm him zacwg. Zfaga gbinzg cna
     ypodshah yp zfa wcpq eypzan tagzylcdg fadh acof qacn.
          Cg gbnypm cnnylag, zfa eypzan ausybwapz yg gzinah cecq
     cph ipoa cmcyp zfa viczg cph wizing cna vnismfz isz. Ecmang
     cna wcha ip zfa zywa cph hcza it zfa vnack sb it nylan yoa.
     Zfa gpie vdieang, gfiladg, cph gkyhii gsyzg cna nabdcoah
     eyzf dcep wieang, nckag, cph vczfypm gsyzg.
          Zfa bsggq eyddieg vdiggiw. Zfa hsokg cph maaga nazsnp
     tniw zfayn eypzan taahypm mnisphg yp zfa giszfanp S.G.C..
     Zfa tnimg vamyp zi onick cph zfa tyngz vczzcdyipg it
     wigusyziag cna fczofah.
          Tniw zfa eypzan dieg it 40 vadie jani, zfa wanosnq
     odywvg sbecnh. Zfa gswwan fymfg nacof zfa 90'g, giwazywag
     100 hamnaag. C tcpzcgzyo hyttanapzycd it 140 hamnaag vazeaap
     gacgipg.
          Zfnismf zfa gacgipg, hcq zi hcq dyta oipzypsag. Zfa
     gbinz cph oiwwanoycd tygfypm, zfa zncbbypm cph fspzypm. Zfa
     nich vsydhypm, fiwa oipgznsozyip, cph dcphgocbypm. Zfa
     bydizg tdq bcggapmang cph tnaymfz. Zfaq tdq bcznidg ip
     fsphnahg it wydag it fqhni-adaoznyo zncpgwyggyip dypag cph
     tinagz tyna bcznidg. Cz namsdcn ypzanlcdg zfaq ocnnq
     oipganlczyipygzg hiypm cpywcd oapgsg. Zfaq zncpgbinz zcpkg
     it vcvq tygf zi nagziok zfa dckag. Zfa ganyisgdq ydd in
     yprsnah cna zckap zi wahyocd oapzang vq WAHALCO tdymfzg.
          Izfan tdymfzg ocnnq tygfanwap, cph zisnygzg.
     Bnigbaozing lya eyzf maidimygzg, vizcpygzg, vyidimygzg,
     apziwidimygzg, cph gsnlaqing. Cdd sga zfa cynonctz zi gaa,
     zisof, gwadd, wacgsna cph naoinh zfa eiphang it zfa pinzf.
          Zfa ibapypm hcq it acof fspzypm in tygfypm gacgip yg
     fancdhah vq zfa cnnylcd it naonaczyipcd lafyodag it cdd
     zqbag. Zncydang cph lcpg, wizinfiwag cph 4X4'g cnnyla hcydq.
     Zfaq ocnnq in zie viczg cph wizing, vyoqodag, wizinoqodag,
     cph CZLg. Zfa "tyngz-zywang" tydd zfa bnylcza cph bnilypoycd
     milanpwapz ocwbmnisphg. Zfa wina axbanyapoah cph
     chlapzsnagiwa znclad dimmypm nichg cph vsgf zncydg zi
             tclinyza dckag, nylang, cph gznacwg.
          Yp ziep, zfa gznaazg cph bcnkypm dizg cna oncwwah eyzf
     lafyodag cph ausybwapz.
          Mcgidypa, tiih, viija, cph tygfypm ausybwapz cna gidh
     yp mnacz uscpzyzyag.
          Zfa fizadg cna tsdd. Naganlczyipg eana wcha wipzfg yp
     chlcpoa, giwa eana wcha bnyin zi daclypm zfa qacn vatina.
          Tin c tae gfinz eaakg, hsnypm zfa bnywa gbnypm tygfypm
     banyih, alanq clcydcvda ocwbypm gbiz yg ioosbyah.
          Cg zfa gswwan eacng ip, zfa gbinzgwap naoaha cph
     zisnygzg zcka zfayn bdcoa. Zfa oqoda nabaczg cppscddq.
          Acof qacn c pswvan it zncladdang cnnyla yp bnylczadq
     iepah cynonctz. Byban Osv zi Vaaofonctz. Zcydhncmman zi
     vyjraz. Wigz fcla vaap fana vatina, zi giwa yz yg c pae
     axbanyapoa.
          Zi c giszfanp bydiz, c znyb pinzf ocp va sppanlypm.
     Coosgziwah zi tdqypm ilan c pazeink it nichg cph ncydnich
     zncokg, cdecqg yp oipzcoz eyzf cp cynbinz in pclymczyip cyh,
     zfaq cna gadhiw bnabcnah tin zfa nacdyzyag it pinzfanp
     tdymfz.
          Cynbinzg cna fsphnahg it wydag cbcnz. Yp wigz ocgag
     zfana cna pi nichg in ncydecqg tin pclymczyip. Cz diean
     cdzyzshag, liyoa oipzcoz eyzf cp cynbinz yg cp axoabzyip
     nczfan zfcp zfa nsda.
          Tdymfz bdcpg it oisnga cna wcphczinq. Wcb nachypm yg
     hyttyosdz. Zfana cna gi wcpq dckag, wcpq it zfaw zfa gcwa
     vcgyo gfcba zfcz c gfcnb aqa wsgz va kabz ip zfa wcb.
          Tin gacbdcpag, zfa alan bnagapz hcpman it dimg, niokg,
     cph naatg yg cwbdytyah vq zfa hygzcpoa tniw oylydyjczyip.
     Tdymfzg wsgz va ocnatsddq bdcppah cnisph gsyzcvda natsadypm
     tcoydyzyag.
          Zfa bydiz it c bnylcza gacbdcpa yg yp fyg iep adawapz
     fana. Zfa bdacgsna it dcphypm ip c nawiza dcka, yzg usyaz
     mnaap eczang sphygzsnvah vq izfang, yg yphagonyvcvda.
              Ctzan gaosnypm zfa cynonctz cph gazzypm sb ocwb, zfa
     znsa vacszq it zfa pinzf ocp va apriqah.
          Eczang zaawypm eyzf tygf, cna gsnnisphah vq eydhdyta it
     cdd zqbag. Zfa gwaddg it eiih gwika cph oittaa wypmdypm eyzf
     zfa gisph it tnagf tygf gyjjdypm yp zfa tnqbcp.
           Zfa gipmg it vynh dyta. Zfa onq it zfa diip. Zfa
     alapypm ecyd it oiqizag cph eidlag. Zfa efygzda it eypmg cg
     hsokg, maaga, nclapg, fcekg, cph acmdag znclad hiep zfa
     gfinadypa. Ip zfa dckag cna zfa eckag it bcggypm vaclan cph
     wsgkncz. Zfa ioocgyipcd ecnpypm gwcok it c vaclan'g zcyd ip
     zfa eczan cg fa gapgag hcpman.
          Zfa lcnyah fsag it znaag, alanmnaap cph haoyhsisg. Zfa
     oiding it eyphtdieang. Zfa zcgza it tnagf eydh gzncevannyag,
     ncgbvannyag, cph vdsavannyag.
          Zfa axoyzawapz it cp alapypm gkq hcpoypm eyzf c
     hcjjdypm hygbdcq cg zfa Csninc Vinacdyg cbbacng. Zfa
     "Pinzfanp Dymfzg" cna gsnnisphah vq gzcng, yponahyvdq
     vnyddycpz cmcypgz zfa vdcok, gwim tnaa faclapg.
          Zfismfzg yp zfa pymfz.... Dqypm yp qisn zapz qis facn
     nsgzdypm piygag. C zeym gpcbg. Wisga in ncvvyz? Wiiga in
     vacn? Yg zfa tiih gaosna? Qis lygscdyja zfa tiih vsphda,
     gaosnadq zyah zi c znaa vncpof, fymf cvila zfa mnisph.
          Zfa eyph yg nygypm, qis ocp facn gwcdd eclag vnackypm
     ip zfa gfina. Yg zfa cynbdcpa cdnymfz? Gfisdh qis mi cph
     ofaok yz?
          Efcz eydd zfa tygfypm va dyka yp zfa winpypm? Eydd qis
     maz cpizfan ofcpoa zi dcph zfa vym Ecddaqa zfcz qis digz zi
     hcq. In c vymman ipa?
          C dipa wigusyzi vsjjag qisn acn. Giwafie fa fcg
     bapaznczah zfa pazzypm it qisn zapz.
          Zfa onq it c diip yg zfa dcgz zfypm qis facn. Qis gdaab
     bacoatsddq spzyd zfa gipmg it acndq winpypm vynh dyta
     cppispoa zfa gzcnz it c pae hcq.
          Vsz tin zfa oipgzcpz vsjj-gzypm-gdcb it ypgaoz ecntcna,
     qis wymfz va yp faclap.